we're gonna um we're gonna do a simple
brake booster Chuck let's say you're a
starting out tech or something you're
starting to fill in your bosses they're
having complaints about their brake
booster maybe it's the brake booster
check the brake booster your thing
yourself maybe you forgot you think of
yourself how do I check the brake
booster again anyways this is just a
quick way of checking the performance of
the vacuum-assisted brake booster you're
gonna find on most vehicles found
everywhere some are some have different
type of operations most vehicles today
have just this vacuum-assisted it just
uses a brake power booster it's got a
diaphragm and what happens is basically
when your engines running you have
vacuum coming from the engine to the
other side this diaphragm when you push
down on this it pushes down also on the
master cylinder through the piston but
to help that piston and help to to push
this down easier when you push this down
it relieves the valve and the valve
allows air to come in this way and then
it it allows the suction to suck it so
it basically it just helps so you don't
have to push so hard on this thing when
you're when you're braking because
little old ladies out there they're
driving these cars and they definitely
they don't want to have to put tons of
force on their pedal and the brake pedal
will stop you know you got little old
ladies driving cars and stuff you don't
have just bit a little tough guys so the
vehicle is off right now
it's real easy this is called like pedal
reserve right here you just put it to
somewhere you could put it like two
right here if you want you could
wherever you get a reference point just
get yourself a ruler or something you
could put it right here if you want you
can see you're about four and a half
right there and you can you just pump it
want to give it a consistent see how
it's going down I'll put it like this so
it that's what I was using before I'm at
about five inches right there and then
the reserve goes to about four five you
get this a little bit five to four
about an inch that's for this vehicle
you want to check your vehicle might be
a little bit different it's about an
inch or so moves about an inch so you
pump it Pump It pump it and then one
check you want to do is I'm gonna have
to push this down so I'm gonna have to
leave you right there you're gonna have
to uh see if I could do it what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna start the vehicle
with my foot hold down on this okay I'm
gonna try to get you in there
unfortunately use a stick so I go stick
my other foot in here that looks just
done so if you want to beat the see and
start the vehicle go pump it
now if you did to have a reference with
the ruler but you're gonna be able to
see so I got it down now I'm gonna start
the vehicle
[Music]
he goes down as soon as I start the
vehicle
the vehicle kind of stumbles a little
bit at Arnold push the brake booster
and then what I'm gonna do now is watch
me hold it down like that and I'm gonna
stop the vehicle now what I'm gonna do
is now I got it down now this is also
gonna do another check right here to
make sure that it's sealing properly
every time I push up and down it's
supposed to raise it up a little farther
see it goes down that far let me try to
get the rule every time I pump up and
down it should raise it a little bit
higher to the reserve see now it won't
go down as far now even won't go down as
far now it's nice and tight basically
what's that doing is checking the
powerful power brake booster when I had
it like this and I started the vehicle
and it went down that's telling me that
this thing is getting vacuumed it's
telling me that it's working properly
after I start to stop the vehicle and I
hold it like this and it raises
basically the first pump it goes all the
way down and then the more pump it keeps
going it goes it raises it higher higher
this way so it'll be down here then when
I pump it it'll go up I pump it again
it'll go up like that and that tells you
also that that that it's sealing
properly um and basically the final
check you want to do oh yeah I know
these flippers are stupid somebody gave
on me because they said they look gay
but I'm okay with my manhood
um the final check you want to do is you
want to just push down on it and you
could get the ruler or whatever you got
to measure and you push down loud a
steady steady uh push and you wait about
fifteen to thirty seconds and if it
doesn't gradually go farther and farther
down see how it's not really moving it's
not going down any farther just stayin
right there that's the final check you
need to check the power booster brake
power booster
if at this moment with the vehicle off
iComfort like this then I hold it like
this if it starts going farther and
farther farther farther and down like
that then you might have some kind of
leak in the system so uh at that point
you'd want to check the the hoses and
everything and it might be a problem
with the booster itself um oftentimes
sometimes with if you have a problem
with the power booster because it's
connected to the vacuum itself you might
have a lien trouble called peas or 171
p01 74 or 72 you might get a lien code
you're getting a lien code because
basically when you pump it right here
it's letting air in through the back
user too much air and then your your
engine sees that as as a lean condition
because it's letting more unmeet or air
it's unmetered air not passing through
the mass airflow sensor
getting through there so thanks for
watching my video comment rate and
subscribe